The Joe Rogan experience. Healthcare,
and this is a healthcare issue obviously is so
complicated and there's so many levels to it. But I mean,
I think one of them that we really have to address is diet and obesity.
There's, there's a giant problem with diet and obesity in this country,
healthy food, eating, eating the proper food. And, you know,
I had a friend who said they were talking about people who do
drugs and people who drink and, you know,
maybe they shouldn't get access to those same health care.
And maybe that's a good incentive to stop people from drinking and doing drugs.
And I said, yeah, what about people do fat? What about people who were fat?
Like you're going to use the same logic with them because you can't fat shame.
So can you tell, Hey, Hey fatso,
you can't get the same health care that a healthy person does. Well,
if you've got a healthy person who likes to drink and they, they run and they,
they jog, but they do like to drink and they occasionally smoke a cigarette.
What are they healthier than someone who's morbidly obese? Yes they are.
So would we have a problem? Is people who don't self care.
We have a giant problem with that.
People who don't take the necessary steps personally,
now is this because of education? Is it because of ignorance?
Is it because of a lack of awareness of the consequences of a,
of a non-healthy diet or eating poor foods or consuming large amounts of
alcohol or tobacco products? I don't know what it is,
but that is a massive part of our healthcare system is people
who are not doing the proper things to their own body in terms of eating
nutritious foods, hopefully that they can afford in terms of exercise,
which is free for everybody. You know,
there's a lot of things you can do that are free to take care of your body.
Yeah, I agree. Well, I think it's indicative of,
of a problem in our culture where we've started to sideline this notion of
personal responsibility. Um, I, the chapter seven in my book,
I forgot it. I got to talk about my book. Well,
now order from your local bookstore you'll run any more than any more help than
Amazon.
Did you read the audio book version of it? Yeah. Good. Thank you.
14 hours. Very important, Andrew,
that some other dork is reading for you. It'd be very upset.
Yeah, no, I was, I was very much against that. And uh, so yeah, we got it done.
Um, chapter seven is called a sense of duty and you know,
part of the, part of the deal when we, when we,
when our founders wrote out the declaration of independence and the constitution
and, and built the framework for this free society that we live in,
where government's role is to protect your rights.
That's fundamentally the government's role. You have God given rights. And, uh,
and, and these, these are life, Liberty, property, effectively speaking,
life, Liberty, and that's in the constitution and the declaration,
they Jefferson wrote the pursuit of happiness and they choose these words really
carefully. Now, part of the exchange there is,
is a necessity for citizens to live with a sense of duty and to live as a
citizen, this idea of citizenship, and to do what is right to do,
what is good. Um,
it's hard for me to imagine that people are just so uneducated that they don't
know that they're unhealthy. You know, I think, I think,
I think they know it right, but the problem is that, that they don't care.
That's a problem. And you're getting at that problem.
That's true. I don't think it's that they don't care.
I think they have no discipline. I don't think it's that they don't care. Well,
there there's,
there's a difference is they've never been taught to push themselves.
There's a lot of look, it's just so easy to get by,
but that's one of the reasons why I love the title of your book.
Fortitude is what people need. And,
and also they need to understand that there's a great value in doing
difficult things and this society, which chapter is that?
Chapter eight? Is it the name of the chapter is called, do something hard.
Good for you. Well, listen, man, that's true. Look, you're a Navy seal, man.
You, you know it, you get it, you live it. This is what we need.
We need more people who understand that. I know it's hard to get up.
I know it's hard to do things. I know it it's hard for me to,
but I still do them and you should do them too. I mean,
it should be something that we encourage everyone to do and that we,
we all talk about. And then we all praise each other for,
and we all get excited about accomplishing these things and taking care of your
physical body, taking care of your meat vehicle. If everybody just did that,
we would have healthcare costs in this country would be radically decreased.
Well.
That's a fact. Yeah, that's a fact. That's an absolute fact.
Well ahead,
discipline and more people just went out and took care of themselves and then
had disciplined to not overeat and had disciplined too,
to try to choose the right foods and to make a meal plan,
write things down. I mean, it can be done this.
We're not talking about breathing under water.
We're talking about things that can be done by the average person.
Like, I don't think the,
the notion of personal responsibility is talked about enough as it's almost
conservatives talk about it all the time.
That's one of the things I appreciate about conservatives.
But.
It's, it's kind of used against us a lot, right?
It's almost like we're accused of being immoral and unfeeling and uncaring.
When we say, you know, in this whole like, oh,
just tell everybody to hold themselves up by their bootstraps and whatever.
And like, not that we even use that term, but, but the point is,
is that it's actually important.
And I don't think conservatives have done a good enough job over time explaining
why it's so important and personal responsibility as a,
as a foundation of our culture. It's important because it leads to empowerment.
It gives us the agency to control our own destiny.
It's if you're constantly in victim mode, if you're constantly being told that,
that you can't control your own destiny well,
that that's fundamentally disempowering and that's a terrible psychological
state to be in.
And the other thing I tell people is that is a fundamental American
attribute. There's, there's some interesting polling out there. Um, I don't,
I forget the numbers, right. But I always,
I always have them in a speech that I give. And when,
when you ask people, um, what's the exact question it's.
It's like, do you.
You know, do, do you have,
are the things that happen to you or are they within your control or outside
your control? It's something like that. Um, in Germany, the,
the answer was,
was overwhelmingly things are happening to them outside of their control,
right? Like, like, do you understand what I'm saying in America?
When the same question was asked, it was like, you know,
30 or 40% of people said yes, versus in Germany it was like 50 or 60%.
So it's a pretty market difference. And that,
and that's a uniquely American thing that we believe we are in control of our
own destiny. We tend to overwhelmingly say more than European countries,
that if we work hard and, and, and play by the rules and do what's right,
that we will get ahead, that we will find that opportunity. And I think that's,
I think the world recognizes that too. When, when you,
when you go around the world and you ask people, where would you rather be to,
you know, to, if you could immigrate right now,
what's your number one destination. Well,
it's the U S a like overwhelmingly the second place is Canada and Germany at
like 6% of respondents. The USA is like 21% of respondents.
So second place isn't even close. And so for all of the left wing,
like anger and, and always saying how bad it is and how nothing works here.
And everybody's just in, in, in crisis,
all the topics that we're in a crisis technically right now, of course,
but this, this rhetoric was, was, was prevalent before all this,
for all of that commentary. It's, it's just, it's just, isn't true.
And so, and, and the reason they use crisis language, okay.
The reason they tell you're going to die in 10 years, climate change,
the reason they're always telling you that corporations are taking advantage of
you. And the 1% is just the, got you under their boot and all of this. It's,
it's very victimizing language,
and there's a reason behind it because they want very, they want very,
very extreme policies put into place. And you can't justify,
you can't justify revolutionizing the whole system,
unless you convince people that the system is so bad and so corrupt that it
needs to be revolutionized. And what's,
that's created is a real undermining of this notion of personal responsibility,
because you have to tell people they're victims.
If you're going to convince them that they need you to save them.
And when you undermine personal responsibility, you disempower people. Um,
and fundamentally to me,
that's what socialism does because you're telling people there, you know, each,
each to their need each to their ability,
what you're telling people is that they don't have to work that hard,
that they deserve.
They have rights to all of these other services from other people,
it's their right. And we should distribute that accordingly.
Everybody's perfectly equal. What that does is it removes agency from people.
And it's truly a disempowering thing.
And we've seen this throughout their throughout history. Um, you know,
just talk to Venezuelans and Cubans, and they're so happy when they get here.
They're so happy. Cause they just want to work hard and move up.
And they're just so excited about this meritocracy that we've, that we've,
that we've built into our, into our culture.
Is there such a great example of that? My friend, Andrew Schultz,
who's a hilarious comedian has a great bit about how communist Cubans
come to America and the moment they step foot on soil, they become Republicans.
It's really hilarious, but it's true. Yeah. And they do appreciate that,
that aspect of this country.
I think one of the things that you said earlier is that we live in the best time
ever in history. And I agree with that,
the consequences of it being such a great time are it's far easier
to get by because it's far easier to get by. People,
look for things to be more difficult than they actually are.
They look for things to be more stacked against them than they actually are.
They look for more of a woe is me standpoint.
When you find people that actually have a real difficult life,
they don't look for things to be hard.
They find hard things everywhere they look.
And oftentimes you find that those people that have a real struggle, that it's,
there's a great documentary called happy people by Werner Herzog.
And it's about people who live in Siberia and it is a brutal,
difficult existence in extreme cold,
but these people are overwhelmingly happy. I mean,
it is a really crazy documentary because their physical and their,
their struggle just for existence just to survive is so
difficult that they've found this sort of perfect
vibration of existence, where they're in the wilderness,
they're out there trapping and hunting and fishing and, and farming and,
and gathering up enough food to survive in the extreme winters.
And it's,
it really shows you that human beings need difficult tasks.
We need things to be tough to do,
and we need to actually go out there and do them to have a feeling of
satisfaction and have a feeling of personal responsibility.
And the fact that you've actually done the things that you needed to do in order
to survive, it's built into us.
Yeah, it really is. And this is why I've wrote a whole chapter on this,
do something hard is it is, it is a real deep into the benefits of suffering.
And I distinguish between just going through something hard,
like getting blown up in the face, like yeah, that's suffering,
but it's not self-imposed I wouldn't wish that upon anybody.
I'm not saying you need to get blown up in the face and lose an eye to have this
sort of spiritual awakening and how good it feels to go through something hard.
But you should,
you should have been easily move into a self-imposed suffering
if you were about to say something. No, it wasn't.
No, but you, but you just, by virtue,
like you're a seal and seals, people that are special operators,
people that have gone through [inaudible]
, whether it's military or first responders really difficult physical tasks to get to where you, you are just that alone creates character, creates a different kind of person and the type of people that gravitate towards those endeavors. Those
they're special people.
They are. But, but, uh, you know,
I didn't write this book for them and I wrote it for everybody. And, and what I,
what I point out is, is, is, is, is listen,
seals have our hard thing and it's buds, um, you know,
it's just that as an acronym,
it stands for basic underwater demolition slash seal training.
It's six months of hell. And it is,
it pushes you beyond limits. You, you ever thought you had hell week,
especially. Um, and when you're done with that, when you,
when you come away from hell week,
there really is this sort of spiritual awakening it's that you have higher
confidence, you feel prepared for anything, even in the, in the,
some of the worst situations, uh, you can think to yourself, well,
it's not quite hell week, is it? You know? And, and so you, you,
you you're able to have a much more perspective we're lacking in perspective,
quite a bit. Also chapter two is called perspective from darkness.
And I point this backed out, but too many of us have gotten so comfortable.
We we've removed suffering from our life to such an extraordinary degree,
and that's not a bad thing. Okay. That's, that's, that's a, that's a, that's a,
that's an element of the modern times that we live in and I'm happy we live
there. But the reality is,
is that my ancestors were like struggling through Texas trying to find water on
a daily basis. And,
and in my life I'm complaining because when I'm at 30,000 feet flying through
the air, the wifi isn't as fast as I'd like it to be like.
So we have very different complaints and it's good to every once in a while,
just think, you know what? I have a pretty good.
And to remind yourself of that again, the do something hard.
Chapter is it's one, it's a deep dive into the psychological literature,
which I just enjoy doing. Um, there's a, there's a lot to back this up,
whether it's modern psychology, the history of stoicism or the Bible,
all of these, all of these texts, these,
these ancient pieces of wisdom that have been around for a very long time,
they all talk about this. They'll talk about the value of suffering,
the value of enduring and hardship and how this builds character and,
and how this actually quite makes you stronger.
And most of them built a metaphysical sense and a psychological sense and a
physical sense actually actually go into the, um, to the science of it as well.
And like how the, the changes in your brain, what exercise does,
what hardship actually does both physically and metaphysically.
Like there's real, there's real benefits to this, but you have to do it.
And it doesn't have to be Joe Rogan's life. Okay.
I wonder if a lot of people look at your life and they're like,
that guy is too productive for me. And, you know,
it's just too intimidating and maybe that's so,
but don't compare yourself to other people compare,
compare yourself to who you were yesterday, you know, and I think that was,
it's not a Jordan Peterson that might be a Jordan Peterson character.
I think I was just quoted that. But, but the point is, is like,
these things are true because they're true.
Like that's why Jordan Peterson says that because it's true. Like, I, you know,
I don't pretend like I'm the first one to come up with these ideas.
I'm just trying to put them into language that people can understand and,
and use my life experiences to, to bolster those, um, those lessons.
But it just has to be harder than what you did yesterday and maybe it's
physical, but not everybody can do physical things.
Maybe it's hard for you to finish a project at home. Just do that.
Maybe take a cold shower. And just so you can like, kind of,
you feel tougher the rest of the day, because you're like, you know what?
I just sat in 10 minutes of icy cold water. I didn't do that the day before,
but I did it today. And now I feel a little bit more like a bad-ass like,
you know, and I feel like more like a bad-ass than I did yesterday.
It's small things.
It's this self-imposed suffering is so important for our lives. Like me, I,
for me, it's usually physical, right?
Like I want to do this challenge of a workout. And they're like,
that kind of keeps me sharp. Um,
or maybe it's like running for Congress or something. Like, I dunno, like we,
we all have something and I'm just saying, Hey, you have to find that and,
and make it habitual. It can't just be once, either.
Cause seals can get soft too. Yes. We, we all know the, you know,
we know who those guys are and, um, it's because they stopped,
they stopped listening from the, to the lessons from buds into this,
this value of self-imposed suffering.